In order to reimplement a set of PhysBAM methods (the set may consist of just one method
or multiple methods) as a Nimbus job, we first need to identify what variables are read
and what variables are updated by this set. We also need to determine if these variables
will be constant across all partitions, or if there will be a different copy corresponding
to each partition. For instance, velocity, particles are different for each partition.
However, scalars like dt, t and policies like boundary, advection_scalar are the same
across all partitions. Quantities that stay constant with time and are same across all
partitions can go into application data. Quantities that vary with time, but are constant
across partitions, can go into parameters (they’ll mostly be scalar quantities or small
data items). Quantities that vary for different partitions may go into data (read/ write
set) or parameters for the corresponding job.

I had broken the task advection of velocities as follows:

- Register data and job types. Right now, I have a different data type for different
partitions (6 data types for velocity advection on 2 workers). Look at the code
the fills in kleft_regions and kright_regions in WaterApp::Load() in
water_app.cc. Once each type is registered in Load, I call define for each type
in Main::Execute() in water_app.cc. 
We will be changing this to not tying data type with region, but specifying
region during or after DefineData (this will cause some code restructuring).
Before starting a job, the worker will have to set the region for the data.
I suggest this should be done after clone and before create, since the region information
(bounding box) can be used to determine size and any other allocation/ initialization
parameters when create is called.

- Spawn jobs and set dependencies and read/ write sets. Set parameters.
Loop::Execute() is the most important part here, since VeforeAdvect, Advect
and AfterAdvect get spawned in the loop job (in water_app.cc).

- Implement data classes (data_face_arrays) that are a wrapper around Physbam data
structures, and something that Nimbus understands. These classes implement create/ clone/
serialize/ deserialize that Nimbus scheduler can call. Data also contains a region
attribute that is useful during gluing/ updating. The code for data_face_arrays
is in data_face_arrays.[cc|h].

- I had added a get_debug_info() method to Nimbus data. This method returns a debug_id for
the class right now, which I used to check what the data in the read/ write set
corresponds to. However, I think we should be able to change this to a check on
dynamic_cast. I need this because I found relying on order in read and write sets to be
very tedious. So I encode type & region information within the data itself, and then
gather data within a job. (Look at GetJobAllData() macro in water_app.cc.)

- Implement serialization/ deserialization for physbam data, that the Nimbus data
sub-class wraps, in proto_files. There are separate protocol buffer files for
vector, arrays, range etc. And there are
physbam_[serialize|deserialize]_data_[arrays|common]_2d.[cc|h] files in the
proto_files directory that use the protocol buffer generated code to serialize
and deserialize physbam structures, and provide functions that can be called
from application code instead of directly using the protocol buffer interface.

- Write out a Param class (protocol buffer) and a class for advection specific parameters.
(See proto_files/params.proto.)
Param contains the region of data that a job is being spawned over. Advection parameter
contains other information like dt, t. Fields in Param are optional.

- Initialize all constant policies when application is loaded as application
  data (water_app.cc).

- Within a job, if the data that the job operates on expects some pointers, but they are
not initialized correctly since we moved the data to application policies (this happens in
all jobs except advection of velocities right now), then set those pointers
correctly (BeforeAdvect, Advect, AfterAdvect, Loop and WriteFrame jobs in
water_app.cc).

- Within a job, glue all data (velocity data on different partitions) for Physbam to
operate on, using region from parameters. Then either directly call into Physbam methods,
or wrapper functions. Update write set data using update data at the end of the job. We
need to implement glue and update methods for all data except velocities (face arrays)
right now. (water_app.cc)

We will need to restructure the wrapper methods that I have written as we implement the
remaining jobs.

I feel water_driver should eventually be broken into a set of methods that
are partition independent, and a separate partition specific class. The partition specific
class will mostly contain pointers that need to be set correctly, during level-set
computation (and possibly other computation like particle computation) due to callbacks.
I am unsure about what pointers need to be set where for different methods
right now.

We may also have to modify initialization code as we change Nimbus
wrappers for Physbam data structures, and move some data to parameters/
application data.
